README.md, before:

# Final IT Career Switch Projects

## Installation and Setup - Gazetteer

1. Clone the repository from GitHub:

   ```
   git clone <repository-url>
   ```

2. Rename the `config.example.php` file in the `php` directory to `config.php`:

   - Add the respective API keys and username values in the `config.php` file for your project.

3. Rename the `config.example.js` file to `config.js`:
   - Add your API key for the chosen tile layer in the `config.js` file.

## Portfolio Project #1: Gazetteer

The first portfolio project, "Gazetteer," involved creating a map-based app to provide information on countries, with a specific focus on a "mobile-first" development approach. The project required the use of a framework to develop HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with JQuery modules, incorporating PHP server-based components to fetch data from third-party APIs such as Geonames and OpenWeather. The success of the solution was assessed based on its adherence to the specifications, functionality, and usability.

**What I enjoyed?**
During this project, I had the opportunity to learn and work with Leafletjs, along with cluster marker and extra marker libraries.

**What I struggled with?**
I faced challenges while locating and including all the necessary files to run Leafletjs without encountering errors in the console. Additionally, debugging issues arose when utilizing free API services, as there were limitations on the number of requests that could be made to the server.

**What I would improve?**
Given the chance to improve my Gazetteer project, I would implement the following enhancements:

- Incorporate an overlay at the bottom of the page to display images of the selected country.
- Add markers for airports in each country for improved user navigation.
- Revise the color scheme to create a more cohesive and uniform design.

## Portfolio Project #2: Company Directory

The second portfolio project, "Company Directory," demanded a more comprehensive approach as it necessitated the creation of a user requirements document. The project could only progress once the document was approved, which then triggered the release of SQL to develop a "mobile-first" application for maintaining a company personnel database using MySQL.

**What I enjoyed?**
Throughout this project, I particularly enjoyed writing MySQL queries to manipulate the database and creating the user interface.

**What I struggled with?**
The challenge in this project came from managing a mix of Bootstrap and custom CSS. This resulted in the interface behaving differently at times due to occasional style conflicts.

**What I would improve?**
To enhance this project further, I would introduce a filtering feature that allows users to find employees based on either their location or department.

These projects marked significant milestones in my IT career switch journey, providing valuable learning experiences and opportunities for growth.

Commit message:

More information added to  projects  README.md
Setup and insolation instructions for company directory project. Tech stack listed for both projects

README.md, after:

# Final IT Career Switch Projects

## Installation and Setup - Gazetteer

1. Clone the repository from GitHub:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/KiranS22/kiranSundal.git
   ```

2. Rename the `config.example.php` file in the `php` directory to `config.php`:
   - Add the respective API keys and username values in the `config.php` file for your project.

3. Rename the `config.example.js` file to `config.js`:
   - Add your API key for the chosen tile layer in the `config.js` file.

## Portfolio Project #1: Gazetteer

The first portfolio project, "Gazetteer," involved creating a map-based app to provide information on countries, with a specific focus on a "mobile-first" development approach. The project used the following tech stack:

- HTML
- CSS
- jQuery
- PHP
- Leafletjs
- Bootstrap 5

The solution incorporated PHP server-based components to fetch data from third-party APIs such as Geonames and OpenWeather.

**What I enjoyed?**
During this project, I had the opportunity to learn and work with Leafletjs, along with cluster marker and extra marker libraries.

**What I struggled with?**
I faced challenges while locating and including all the necessary files to run Leafletjs without encountering errors in the console. Additionally, debugging issues arose when utilizing free API services, as there were limitations on the number of requests that could be made to the server.

**What I would improve?**
Given the chance to improve my Gazetteer project, I would implement the following enhancements:

- Incorporate an overlay at the bottom of the page to display images of the selected country.
- Add markers for airports in each country for improved user navigation.
- Revise the color scheme to create a more cohesive and uniform design.

## Installation and Setup - Company Directory

1. Clone the repository as detailed in the setup instructions for the Gazetteer project.

2. In the `php` directory, locate the `config.php` file and add in your database name, username, and password.

## Portfolio Project #2: Company Directory

The second portfolio project, "Company Directory," demanded a more comprehensive approach as it necessitated the creation of a user requirements document. The project used the following tech stack:

- HTML
- CSS
- jQuery
- PHP
- MySQL
- Bootstrap 5

The project involved developing a "mobile-first" application for maintaining a company personnel database using MySQL.

**What I enjoyed?**
Throughout this project, I particularly enjoyed writing MySQL queries to manipulate the database and creating the user interface.

**What I struggled with?**
The challenge in this project came from managing a mix of Bootstrap and custom CSS. This resulted in the interface behaving differently at times due to occasional style conflicts.

**What I would improve?**
To enhance this project further, I would introduce a filtering feature that allows users to find employees based on either their location or department.

These projects marked significant milestones in my IT career switch journey, providing valuable learning experiences and opportunities for growth.
